.TH VSFS 1 2021-10-24 COSC1114

.SH NAME
VSFS \- Very Simple File System

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B VSFS
COMMAND FS [OPTION]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute COMMAND on FS using OPTION(s) as parameters.

VSFS allows you to create a file system within a text file appended with ".notes".

An internal file can be created using "@" followed by the name of a file.

Data for a given file can be added if you insert a line prepended with " " on the lines following a file name.

Directories can be created using "=" followed by the name of the directory.

Comment lines/ignore lines can be created using "#" followed by the text to be ignored.

.TP
.BR Exit\ Status:
0 if OK,

1 if error (e.g. specified file does not exist).


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR FS
File system; a .notes file that contains the structure of your files and directories.
.TP
.BR IF
Internal file; a file modelled within a .notes file.
.TP
.BR EF
External file; a file that exists on your current operating system.
.TP
.BR ID
Internal directory; a directory modelled within a .notes file.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list [FS]
Lists the contents of FS in ls -l format.
.TP
.B copyin [FS] [EF] [IF]
Copy an existing external file EF into FS as IF.
.TP
.B copyout [FS] [IF] [EF]
Copy an existing internal file IF out of FS as EF.
.TP
.B mkdir [FS] [ID]
Create an empty internal directory ID in FS.
.TP
.B rm [FS] [IF]
Remove internal file IF from FS.
.TP
.B rmdir [FS] [ID]
Remove internal directory ID from FS.
.TP
.B defrag [FS] 
Remove all deleted entries of FS and sort into tree-like structure.
.TP
.B index [FS] 
No implementation required.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B VSFS list genericFile.notes
Lists the files and directories of genericFile.notes in ls -l format..
.TP
.B VSFS copyin genericFile.notes externalFile.txt internalFileName.txt
Copies the contents of externalFile.txt into genericFile.notes with the name internalFileName.txt.
.TP
.B VSFS copyout genericFile.notes internalFileName.txt externalFile.txt
Copies the contents from internalFileName.txt in genericFile.notes to externalFile.txt.
.TP
.B VSFS mkdir genericFile.notes dir1/
Creates an internal directory dir1/ in genericFile.notes.
.TP
.B VSFS rm genericFile.notes existingFile.txt
Removes (if exists) existingFile.txt from genericFile.notes.
.TP
.B VSFS rmdir genericFile.notes dir1/
Removes an internal directory dir1/ from genericFile.notes.
.TP
.B VSFS defrag genericFile.notes
Removes all ignore ("#") lines from the file and re-organises all files and directories to follow a tree-like structure.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH SEE ALSO
ls(1), rm(1), mkdir(1), rmdir(1), mv(1), cp(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thomas Dib (s3838765).
